#Q1 What is Node.JS?
Ans. Node.js is an open-source, cross-platform, back-end JavaScript runtime environment that runs on a JavaScript Engine (i.e. V8 engine) and executes JavaScript code outside a web browser, which was designed to build scalable network applications. Node.js lets developers use JavaScript to write command line tools and for server-side scripting—running scripts server-side to produce dynamic web page content before the page is sent to the user's web browser. Consequently, Node.js represents a "JavaScript everywhere" paradigm,[6] unifying web-application development around a single programming language, rather than different languages for server-side and client-side scripts.


# Q2 What is NPM?
Ans. NPM is the world's largest Software Registry.The registry contains over 800,000 code packages.Open-source developers use npm to share software.Many organizations also use npm to manage private development.

Using npm is Free
npm is free to use.You can download all npm public software packages without any registration or logon.


Command Line Client

npm includes a CLI (Command Line Client) that can be used to download and install software:

Installing npm:

npm is installed with Node.js

This means that you have to install Node.js to get npm installed on your computer.

Download Node.js from the official Node.js web site: https://nodejs.org

Q3. What are the different modules in Node.JS?
Ans.  In Node.js, Modules are the blocks of encapsulated code that communicates with an external application on the basis of their related functionality. Modules can be a single file or a collection of multiples files/folders. The reason programmers are heavily reliant on modules is because of their re-usability as well as the ability to break down a complex piece of code into manageable chunks.

Modules are of three types:

Core Modules local Modules Third-party Modules

Q4. What is the purpose of the module.exports?
Ans. Module exports are the instructions that tell Node. js which bits of code (functions, objects, strings, etc.) to export from a given file so that other files are allowed to access the exported code

Q5. Difference between default export and named export?
Ans.  Module exports are the instructions that tell Node. js which bits of code (functions, objects, strings, etc.) to export from a given file so that other files are allowed to access the exported code.

